Add ver-1kd (#235)
idaholab/TMAP8: doc/content/verification_and_validation/ver-1kd.md

The diffusion process for each species in the two enclosures can be expressed by

\begin{equation}
\frac{\partial C_1}{\partial t} = \nabla D \nabla C_1 + \frac{S}{V_1} kT,
\end{equation}
and
\begin{equation}
\frac{\partial C_2}{\partial t} = \nabla D \nabla C_2,
\end{equation}

where $C_1$ and $C_2$ represent the concentration fields in enclosures 1 and 2 respectively, $t$ is the time, $D$ denotes the diffusivity, $S$ the volumetric source rate, $V_1$ the volume of enclosure 1, $k$ the Boltzmann constant and $T$ the temperature.
Note that the diffusivity may vary across different species and enclosures. However, in this case, it is assumed to be identical for all.

The concentration in Enclosure 1 is related to the partial pressure and concentration in Enclosure 2 via the interface sorption law:

\begin{equation}
C_1 = K P_2^n = K \left( C_2 RT \right)^n
\end{equation}

where $R$ is the ideal gas constant in J/mol/K, $T$ is the temperature in K, $K$ is the solubility, and $n$ is the exponent of the sorption law. For Sieverts' law, $n=0.5$.

## Results

We assume that $K = 10/\sqrt{RT}$, which is expected to result in $C_1 = 10 \sqrt{C_2}$ at equilibrium.

> As illustrated in [ver-1kd_comparison_time_k10], since the chemical reactions occur immediately, an initial quantity of HT is present in Enclosure 1, while T$_2$ and H$_2$ have initially dropped to half their original amounts. The volumetric source contributes to an increase in T$_2$ within Enclosure 1, thereby enhancing its chemical reactions with H$_2$. Consequently, in Enclosure 1, H$_2$ pressure gradually decreases over time, while HT pressure rises. Similarly, the volumetric source increases T$_2$ pressure in Enclosure 2. In Enclosure 2, the increasing presence of T$_2$ leads to H$_2$ saturation, which in turn causes HT pressure to rise.

Reviewer: I'm not sure what you mean by H$_2$ saturation. Please rephrase.

> Thus, it is crucial to ensure that the chemical equilibrium between HT, T$_2$ and H$_2$ is achieved. This can be verified in both enclosures by examining the ratio between $P_{\text{HT}}$ and $\sqrt{P_{\text{H}_2} P_{\text{T}_2}}$, which must equal $\eta=2$.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For verification purposes, it is crucial to ensure that the chemical equilibrium between HT, T$_2$ and H$_2$ is achieved. This can be verified in both enclosures by examining the ratio between $P_{\text{HT}}$ and $\sqrt{P_{\text{H}_2} P_{\text{T}_2}}$, which must equal $\eta=2$.
```

> As shown in [ver-1kd_equilibrium_constant_k10], this ratio approaches $\eta=2$ for both enclosures, as observed in TMAP7. However, achieving this balance involves a compromise to reproduce TMAP7's results. The ratio of $K_1$ and $K_2$ must respect [eq:eta]. The values of $K_1$ and $K_2$ must also be large enough to ensure that the kinetics of chemical reactions are faster than diffusion or surface permeation to be closer to the equilibrium assumption used in TMAP7. Here, the equilibrium in enclosure 1 is achieved rapidly. Increasing $K_1$ and $K_2$ would also enable a quicker attainment of equilibrium in enclosure 2. However, using very high values for $K_1$ and $K_2$ would lead to an unnecessary increase in computational costs.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As shown in [ver-1kd_equilibrium_constant_k10], this ratio approaches $\eta=2$ for both enclosures at equilibrium. To reach this equilibrium, the ratio of $K_1$ and $K_2$ must respect [eq:eta]. The values of $K_1$ and $K_2$ must also be large enough to ensure that the kinetics of chemical reactions are faster than diffusion or surface permeation to be closer to the equilibrium assumption imposed in TMAP7. Here, the equilibrium in enclosure 1 is achieved rapidly. Increasing $K_1$ and $K_2$ would also enable a quicker attainment of equilibrium in enclosure 2. However, using very high values for $K_1$ and $K_2$ would lead to an unnecessary increase in computational costs.
```
I don't see TMAP7 making this verification in their V&V report. They just use a different system of equations.

The concentration ratios for T$_2$, H$_2$, and HT between enclosures 1 and 2, shown in [ver-1kd_concentration_ratio_T2_k10], [ver-1kd_concentration_ratio_H2_k10], and [ver-1kd_concentration_ratio_HT_k10], demonstrate that the results obtained with TMAP8 are consistent with the analytical results derived from the sorption law for $K \sqrt{RT} = 10$.

!media comparison_ver-1kd.py
       image_name=ver-1kd_comparison_time_k10.png
       style=width:50%;margin-bottom:2%;margin-left:auto;margin-right:auto
       id=ver-1kd_comparison_time_k10
       caption=Evolution of species concentration over time governed by Sieverts' law with $K = 10/\sqrt{RT}$ and $\eta = \sqrt{2K_1/K_2}$.

!media comparison_ver-1kd.py
       image_name=ver-1kd_equilibrium_constant_k10.png
       style=width:50%;margin-bottom:2%;margin-left:auto;margin-right:auto
       id=ver-1kd_equilibrium_constant_k10

>        caption=Equilibrium constant as a function of time for $\eta = \sqrt{2K_1/K_2}=2$.

Reviewer: The equilibrium is not properly obtained in Enclosure 2. Let's figure out what causes this.

# ver-1kd

# Sieverts’ Law Boundaries with Chemical Reactions and Volumetric Source

## General Case Description

Two enclosures are separated by a membrane that allows diffusion according to Sieverts' law and chemical reactions, with a volumetric source in Enclosure 1. Enclosure 2 has twice the volume of Enclosure 1.

## Case Set Up

This verification problem is taken from [!cite](ambrosek2008verification).

> This setup describes a diffusion system in which tritium T$_2$, dihydrogen H$_2$ and HT are modeled across a one-dimensional domain split into two enclosures. Compared to the [ver-1kc-2](ver-1kc-2.md) case, we now incorporate a T$_2$ tritium volumetric source in Enclosure 1. The volumetric source rate is set to $S_{\text{T}_2} = 10^{23}/N_A mol/m$^3$/s with $N_A = 6.02214076 \times 10^{23}$ 1/mol.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This setup describes a diffusion system in which tritium T$_2$, dihydrogen H$_2$ and HT are modeled across a one-dimensional domain split into two enclosures. Compared to the [ver-1kc-2](ver-1kc-2.md) case, we now incorporate a T$_2$ tritium volumetric source in Enclosure 1. The volumetric source rate is set to $S_{\text{T}_2} = 10^{23}/N_A$ mol/m$^3$/s with $N_A = 6.02214076 \times 10^{23}$ 1/mol.
```

This verification problem is taken from [!cite](ambrosek2008verification).

> This setup describes a diffusion system in which tritium T$_2$, dihydrogen H$_2$ and HT are modeled across a one-dimensional domain split into two enclosures. Compared to the [ver-1kc-2](ver-1kc-2.md) case, we now incorporate a T$_2$ tritium volumetric source in Enclosure 1. The volumetric source rate is set to $S_{\text{T}_2} = 10^{23} mol/m^3/s$.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This setup describes a diffusion system in which tritium T$_2$, dihydrogen H$_2$ and HT are modeled across a one-dimensional domain split into two enclosures. Compared to the [ver-1kc-2](ver-1kc-2.md) case, we now incorporate a T$_2$ tritium volumetric source in Enclosure 1. The volumetric source rate is set to $S_{\text{T}_2} = 10^{23}/N_A mol/m$^3$/s with $N_A = 6.02214076 \times 10^{23}$ 1/mol.
```
